New Documentation (#27)
terramate-io/terramate-docs: concepts/code-generation.md

---
title: Code Generation | Terramate Concepts
description: "Learn how code generation in Terramate can be used to keep your stacks DRY by generating native Terraform,
OpenTofu, HCL, JSON and YAML files."
---

# Code Generation

In this section, we will cover code generation as a core concept in Terramate.

## Introduction

> Terramate supports code generation for Terraform, OpenTofu, YAML or JSON files. Generating code in stacks can help keep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terramate supports code generation for Terraform, OpenTofu, YAML, or JSON files. Generating code in stacks can help keep
```

your stacks DRY (think generating files such as Terraform provider configuration or Kubernetes manifests).

> This is especially useful whenever you want to conditionally generate code for stacks based on stack metadata such as tags or paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is useful whenever you want to conditionally generate code for stacks based on stack metadata such as tags or paths.
```

## Why code generation

Terramate chooses code generation over abstraction to enable backward compatibility and integrations with all supporting

> tooling. By generating e.g. native Terraform code, you can use Terramate with all supporting tooling without requiring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By generating, e.g., native Terraform code, you can use Terramate with all supporting tooling without requiring
```

> any additional integration. Stacks in Terramate are by default native environments, think of Terraform or OpenTofu root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any additional integration. Stacks in Terramate are native environments by default, like Terraform or OpenTofu root
```

> modules. This also means that generating code with Terramate doesn't cause any lock-in. You can off-board Terramate at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modules, which is why generating code with Terramate doesn't cause any lock-in. You can off-board Terramate at
```

any point in time from your project without any migration effort.

In addition, generation code allows for all STA ("Static Code Analysis") tools to be integrated with Terramate, meaning

> tools such as infracost, checkov, trivy and others integrate without any additional effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tools such as infracost, checkov, trivy, and others integrate without any additional effort.
```

## Use cases:

To mention some of the use cases of code generation:

- Keeping stacks DRY by generating Terraform or OpenTofu backend and provider configuration.

> - Programmatically managing Terraform and Provider versions in stacks using `globals` allowing advanced techniques such as canary releases or partial updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Programmatically managing Terraform and Provider versions in stacks using `globals` and allowing advanced techniques such as canary releases or partial updates.
```
